---
layout: post
title: "Research"
categories: research
sect: home
image: seg.png
---


Below is a list of my past, current, and future research projects. Click below
to see a concise summary of the work along with links to the paper, websites,
and GitHub repositories.

<hr style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width: 60%; color: #f2f2f2">


## Allosteric control in transcriptional regulation
[Published work in Cell Systems]() \| [Paper
Website](https://www.rpgroup.caltech.edu/mwc_induction) \| [GitHub
Repository](https://www.github.com/rpgroup-pboc/mwc_induction)


Allosteric regulation is found across all domains of life, yet we still lack
simple, predictive theories that directly link the experimentally tunable
parameters of a system to its input-output response. Through use of a
statistical mechanical depiction of the Monod-Wyman-Changeux model of
allostery, one can derive analytical expressions for the fold-change in gene
expression of a transcriptional regulatory circuit in which the transcription
factor is the allosteric regulator. In Razo-Mejia and Chure, et al., we put
forward such a theory and rigorously test it experimentally in the context of
the most ubiquitous bacterial regulatory architecture - simple repression. The
result of this extensive theory and experiment dialogue is the simple
input-output function schematized below which defines the fold-change in gene
expression.

<img src="{{site.github_url}}/assets/img/fc_eq.png" style="width: 70%">

<hr style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width: 60%; color: #f2f2f2">

## The Energetics of Molecular Adaptation

[bioRxiv preprint](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/638270v1) \| [Paper
Website](https://www.rpgroup.caltech.edu/mwc_mutants) \| [GitHub
Repository](https://github.com/rpgroup-pboc/mwc_mutants)

Mutation is a critical mechanism by which evolution explores the functional
landscape of proteins. Despite our ability to experimentally inflict
mutations at will, it remains difficult to link sequence-level perturbations
to systems-level responses. In this work, Ij present a framework to link
individual mutations in a transcriptional repressor to the parameters which
govern its response through measuring changes in the free energy of the
system. Our findings are that the energetic effects of the mutations can be
categorized into several classes which have stereotypical curves as a
function of the inducer concentration. These diagnostic predictions are
tested experimentally well-characterized LacI repressor of *Escherichia
coli*, probing several mutations in the DNA binding and inducer binding
domains. The change in gene expression in response to a point mutation can be
captured by modifying a subset of the model parameters which describe the
respective domain of the wild-type protein. These parameters appear to be
insulated, with mutations in the DNA binding domain altering only the DNA
affinity and those in the inducer binding domain altering only the allosteric
parameters. Changing these subsets of parameters tunes the free energy of the
system in a way that is concordant with theoretical expectations. Finally, I
show that the induction profiles and resulting free energies associated with
double mutants can be predicted with quantitative accuracy given knowledge of
the single mutants, providing an avenue for identifying and quantifying
epistatic interactions. The interactive figure below gives a sense of how
changing the various biophysical parameters alters the induction profile and
the free energy difference.

{% include model_explorer.html %}

<br/>

<hr style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width: 60%; color: #f2f2f2">

## Mechanosensation and survival under osmotic shock
[Published work in Journal of
Bacteriology](https://jb.asm.org/content/200/23/e00460-18) \| [Paper
Website](https://www.rpgroup.caltech.edu/mscl_survival) \| [GitHub
Repository](https://www.github.com/rpgroup-pboc/mscl_survival) 

Mechanosensitive (MS) channels are transmembrane protein complexes which open
and close in response to changes in membrane tension as a result of osmotic
shock. Despite extensive biophysical characterization, the contribution of
these channels to cell survival remains largely unknown. In Chure, Lee, and
Phillips 2018 we use quantitative video microscopy to measure the abundance
of a single species of MS channel in single cells followed by their survival
after a large osmotic shock. We observe total death of the population with
less than 100 channels per cell and determine that approximately 500 - 700
channels are needed for 80% survival. The number of channels we find to
confer nearly full survival is consistent with the counts of the number of
channels in wild type cells in several earlier studies. These results prompt
further studies to dissect the contribution of other channel species to
survival. The `.gif` below shows a representative experiment with a field of
cells recovering after a strong osmotic shock. 

<img src="{{site.github_url}}/assets/img/mscl.gif" style="width: 70%">

<hr style="margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width: 60%; color: #f2f2f2">


## Developing Pipelines For Open and Reproducible Research
[GitHub Repository](https://www.gchure.github.io/reproducible_research)

As biological data becomes bigger and bigger and analysis routines become
more computationally sophisticated, the scientific process must be adapted
such that research is reproducible. Iâ€™ve committed myself to using the git
version control system coupled with the hosting service GitHub as a
laboratory notebook and data repository. Each project I am involved in has
its own repository (linked above) and I have created Reproducible Research: A
Template For Using Git and GitHub As A Scientific Research Tool which sets
out the bare bones of how I structure my projects. If you are interested in
doing the same, feel free to fork the repository and modify as you see fit.